Our text today is discussing hospitality,
and as we know hospitality includes generously giving to others.
But you may have noted that our comments makes a very profound statement.
It says that hospitality is one of the finest antidotes to loneliness.
Have you ever been lonely?
Really lonely.
Loneliness can be quite painful.
As we know, it's possible to be lonely even when we're surrounded by people.
One writer stated,
Solitude is pleasant.
Loneliness is not.
Another described loneliness is being like being in the rain,
and the sky holds nothing but the promise of more clouds.
One sister described the feeling of loneliness as slipping down a deep well,
and the further she slipped, the darker things became.
So what can help us to deal with loneliness before we sink too deep?
What can help us start climbing back out of that well
or pushing those clouds out into the sky?
Well, as our text says, hospitality, generosity, giving is one of the finest antidotes to loneliness.
Now, why is that?
Well, let's consider three scriptural principles as to why that is the case.
And we'll see why this is true.
Look first at Acts chapter 20 and verse 35.
Let's read that together.
Acts chapter 20 and verse 35,
and we'll see our first promise.
And here it says,
I have shown you in all things
that by working hard in this way,
you must assist those who are weak.
And must keep in mind the words of the Lord Jesus when He Himself said,
there's more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
So our first point is very simply that giving makes us happy.
Now, the apostle Paul here is quoting Jesus
and you notice Jesus was not saying that we give when we are happy
or we give because we are happy.
He says that we are happy because we give.
Now, that's significant because that tells us that even when we force ourselves to give,
even if we don't feel like it,
we will experience happiness.
At researchers today have confirmed with Jesus new all along,
they even state possibly that giving releases endorphins in the brain
that helps us with serenity and with contentment.
So our first point is that giving makes us happy.
For a second promise, look at Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 16.
Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 16.
It says,
moreover, do not forget to do good and to share what you have with others.
For God is well pleased with such sacrifices.
So our second point is that giving puts us in a special relationship with Jehovah.
Jehovah is well pleased when we are hospitable when we give to others.
Now, what does that cause him to do?
Well, we may think of Paul's words in Philippians chapter 4 verses 18 and 19
the Apostle Paul was commending the Philippian congregation
because they generously helped him, helped Paul.
And so Paul said in response that Jehovah would fully supply according to their need.
So giving puts us in a special relationship with Jehovah
where precious to Jehovah any promises that he will fill all of our needs,
including our emotional needs.
Now, we may hear that and we say, well, now wait a minute.
It is true that when I give, when I'm hospitable,
I am happy for the time, but then later loneliness comes back again.
Does that mean that this scripture, this principle does not apply to me?
No.
Just think about what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 6 verses 25 and 33.
Remember there, Jesus said, do not be anxious about what we're going to eat
or what we're going to drink because Jehovah will give us what we need when we need it.
And we trust that statement.
But do we take that to mean that if we're hungry,
we're going through a difficult time and Jehovah gives us something,
takes care of our needs that will never feel hungry again?
No, later that day, the next day we're hungry again.
What's the point?
The point is that Jehovah will make sure that we have what we need when we need it.
Well, it's the same with our emotional needs.
Jehovah does not say that we will never feel lonely.
We will never feel down or depressed, but he assures us that if we give to others,
if we are hospitable, he will make sure that we have what we need
so that we can be happy and fulfilled in life.
So that's our second promise.
Giving puts us in a special relationship with Jehovah
and he will supply our needs.
For our third one, let's look at Luke chapter 6 and verse 38.
Luke chapter 6 and verse 38.
And this principle or this promise is that Jehovah makes sure
that we always receive much more than we give.
Luke 6, 38 says, practice giving and people will give to you.
They will pour into your laps a fine measure.
Press down, shaken together and overflowing.
For at the measure you are measuring out, they will measure out to you in return.
So Jehovah always makes sure that we receive much more than we give
and we believe that scripture.
But all of us have hit points in our time when we feel like we are just giving,
giving, maybe in the congregation and the family or situation in our life we're giving
and we're just not getting anything back.
Well, what then?
Does that mean the scripture is not true?
Well, no, Jesus understood that.
What happened? Notice the way it's worded.
He says, practice giving and people will give to you.
People, not necessarily the ones that we're giving to.
See, with the measure that you measure out,
keep they, people will give to you in return.
So what's the point?
The point is that Jehovah promises that if we practice giving,
if we practice strengthening our brothers, we practice hospitality,
Jehovah will ensure through one way or another that we receive the blessings,
the strength and the encouragement to continue.
Now, does this formula work?
Well, it does and we'll tell you an experience.
I'll tell you an experience of a sister we'll call Lydia.
Now, Lydia was a single sister, a regular pioneer.
And though she had her normal down days as everybody does,
Lydia was known as a generous and hospitable sister.
She always had gatherings at her home.
She would invite the whole field service group to her home for breakfast
before we'd go out and service, or she would do other outings,
special outings for older ones.
Well, then Lydia was diagnosed with cancer.
And this hit her very, very hard.
And then she later had to have surgery.
And Lydia sank into a very, very deep depression,
such that the elders, the congregation,
even her friends wondered if she would ever be able to pull out of it.
Well, finally, on one shepherding call, two elders went to visit her.
And they read with her, Luke 6, verse 38,
the scripture that we just consider.
And they reminded her of how generous, how hospitable she used to be in the past.
And how this brought her such happiness.
And she acknowledged it was true, but she says,
I just don't want to be around people anymore.
I can't be around people.
So these two brothers challenged her in a kind way
to prayerfully try to force herself to give,
just for a few months and see how things worked out.
And to everybody's surprise, she did.
And it was like the clouds parted,
and the old Lydia came back again.
Now, that was many years ago.
And Lydia still has her down days,
just like everybody does, but she is again a happy and productive servant of Jehovah.
Well, it's the lesson.
Well, hospitality, generosity, giving is one of the finest antidotes to loneliness and depression.
If we give, Jehovah promises that we will get back in return.
Now, there's a beautiful account that reminds us that we cannot out-give Jehovah.
And we know this one in 2 Chronicles, chapter 25.
Let's look at that together.
2 Chronicles 25, starting there in verse 5.
This is speaking about Amazaya, the king.
He's 25 years old, king of Judah.
And this is at a time when he's facing a conflict with the Edomites.
Verse 5 says that he gathers in Judah,
and he identifies 300,000 skilled warriors to serve in the army.
But he feels that that's not enough, so you look at verse 6,
and he goes out and he hires 100,000 soldiers from Israel for a hundred silver talents.
Now, verse 7, the man of the true God comes and says,
send the 100,000 soldiers of Israel back because Jehovah is not with Israel.
Go with the 300,000 you have, and I'll be with you.
Well, you look at the beginning of verse 9.
2 Chronicles 25 and verse 9, the king says,
but what about the money I paid out?
Now, that was no small change.
According to the appendix B14 in the back of our Bible,
those hundred silver talents would be worth about 1.5 million today in today's money in silver.
So the king put out a lot of money to hire those soldiers.
Now, the prophet just says, just send them away.
But it's the next words that are so reassuring in the context of what we're talking about today.
Notice that in verse 9, the latter part of it,
it says, the man of the true God replied,
Jehovah has the means to give you much more than that.
Don't worry about it.
You cannot outgive Jehovah.
So in the context of our discussion, Jehovah promises that if we are hospitable,
if we are generous, if we are giving, we will be happy.
He guarantees that he'll supply all of our needs,
even our emotional needs, and he will move others to give back to us much more than we ever could give.
So may we be determined to practice giving, practice hospitality, practice generosity, and every time we do,
we will push the clouds farther back into the sky, and we will always receive much more than we give.